in a minute I'm going have to get my
charger
actually
[Music]
um what song is that it's from Ice Age I
think I feel like I just updated this
background remover thing and I feel like
it's actually kind of worse I don't know
supposed to be faster
though seems about as
[Music]
fast
all right so let's just get into it
today I made a bunch of notes uh I wish
it was easy to disable this thing
actually I'm sure I can do that with web
sockets but I made a bunch of
notes and now we're going to get
into implementing because I realized
basically I had a huge mistake when I
implemented when I
implemented
this um see how I have an expression and
then I have a pattern and I assume that
the the in the signature
to
this thing I assumed that the expression
was an expert which is right but that
the pattern was just a
pattern
but that doesn't work because patterns
can contain expressions and expressions
can contain patterns so to have two
separate types here is just like a
fundamental problem and it assumes some
structure
like for example literal any of these
literals can be an
expert um and that exper can contain
patterns so to separate
out this is to impose some
restriction
on
what what is actually representable
so that's not right so we're going to go
through and try to implement what I
have
now got some carrots and some kiwis and
some hummus and a salad and that's
what's going
on okay this is the start of what I had
so I started
to go through
I started to go through already before I
started
streaming okay I'll make a note
here um
for
hm oh
[Music]
because
actually
we can't
unwrap
[Music]
um
h
it would be nice to have that imple deal
ra thing cuz this indexing behavior is
very nice but
whatever
um I think that's right except
for map map.
insert P name we don't want P name we
want P
head and then do we want X
yeah we want
X and then we want to return
true and
then oh wait yeah
okay clone
it
um it should be false
right what are we saying
here
okay who look at this carrot is it
getting
it so like
legs weird
carrot oh
okay
okay all right so that's good that arm
is
fine
okay
that is
accurate
okay so we want to
say
um
well what is all
this
H that was pretty close but that's not
what I
want
okay
um so here we
have I don't know if that's the right
number
of let me just write what I have down
here add all my assertions
actually equals three
bro oh my God this thing just keeps Ming
the hell
up why is this
thing okay
for
do
M that's what I want I love
that
um
um oh yeah is equal to
zero what is that song bro Ice Age
traving
song that's
it can't play of those who get
muted which is stupid it's actually
[__]
stupid
Oh My
Stream I should be able
to okay
um
okay
for
okay so what do we need to
do we need to do
that it's kind of
duplicated
map get P
name no no
no we're going to get the whole pattern
object
which I don't
care
okay
all right so we're still in the Sim
oh this is the Sim list
arm oh
okay an lse so wait
so
so so this case would be
like
[Music]
um wait what would this case be then
this should be
like like
that
it's false right that has to be
false I think we don't even need this
stuff why did I have this code here I
was just getting
confused
I think we don't even need this I think
this case is just
false I'm pretty sure this is all
wrong
this is
wrong one two three four
yeah all right so why don't we comment
all this
out this is just going to be
return F because you're trying to
match a symbol to a
list and in less that top level thing
is yeah I'm pretty sure that's
right
let me unfold
this all right so here we do expert list
PS oh my paper's
got
yeah I don't know what I was
[Applause]
thinking
okay
oh wait hold on this is
ease now I'm pretty
sure right okay here we go here we
go so I'm pretty
sure do this then we go to
match uh or let's undo that comment that
okay match
hat
exper
Sim get so the good part
can we skip to the good
[Music]
part bro I want to listen to music but
you can't it's so
annoying
for
so
now
for
M
okay
where's my
[Music]
pen so this was
one
I think this is
two this is
three this is four
[Applause]
okay
okay so the first thing is when we have
a list is the head
pattern
out of curiosity does this also
work
yeah I don't really
care
d d
[Music]
d
so
[Music]
here
I think it's helpful to keep track of
these
[Music]
examples
damn I need a
[Music]
pick I mean using a glucose
tablet it's going to [__] my strings
[Music]
up
oh
[Music]
all right so in this case this is the
case
where any
pattern object that that I'm planning to
support should pass
here oops so I should be able to do
oh but but we do need to um do a map
that yet so wait where is our code for
[Music]
that okay I want my I want a
interpreter
[__]
I'm going to put Rusty line back in this
one I don't have to worry about all my
other stuff
but
okay
[Music]
okay this returns
bull
okay we have less e and we have less
P's
[Music]
my notes say that I'm supposed to do a
match on the P
head
[Music]
are
all right I got to I got a lock the cuz
I'm I'm off test
there's no way to M make a list of
Expressions match a single Sim that's
true that makes
sense
do I even have to D reference
here all
right
for
okay I'm just going to I'm just going to
write what I
did
yeah I wrote here I'm not convinced we
need the match PE
head so this is saying
so this is this case and then this would
be like
a at
that um where this P
head yeah this is like the blank blank
case so let's say we
have wait is that right
right so that in s expression looks
like [__] I hate the key bindings
here
that's
this
I think this one seems sus to
me no it's
not oh I
think actually what we could
do we do this
here
ah all right let's move this all the way
up
then let me do
this do this and we say it here
something's
wrong something's very
wrong about
[Music]
it why is this so
wrong uh
the
formatting
oh okay there we
go oh wait can I can I just do
this I don't really
know I don't really look
care
I think actually we're supposed to just
recurse
here I think this case we're allowed to
just
do uh
of
x no maybe you're only supposed to
return falses in there because you still
need
to Loop
over
darks right
so
but
all right I don't know why I'm
complicating it so
much I'm not going to do
this I'm going to keep this in
here okay but this
case
okay
oh
yeah
okay I want to comment all these
out cuz these are all going to fail I'm
going to
do I'm going do
f f through my test
it okay good
now let's do F pattern
X
think
good now what else do we have to test
here in the Sim
portion um
maybe I think that's
it cuz we just return false otherwise
right if it's not a
pattern return
false that makes
sense wait what are we doing here oh we
just returned
false
I think I could I think I can make this
cleaner by just doing it IFL
Sim pee
head but what
whatever
okay so I
think this seems
like case where we are matching the
whole list to a
pattern so let's try
that so yeah let's make sure that this
works faab pattern
blank so we're going to do we're just
going to do a basic call on a
blank cool let's just make sure that it
works with more
arguments uh I I want this no
capture why Ain show me no
map
somewhere we're
not PR
BL here I
am
interesting oh wait no yeah yeah
yeah that know what I mean
[Music]
bro I mean
her right okay okay so we're in the list
guys so then why didn't the map get
printed
oh because I'm
done cuz
[Music]
I'm oh wait
uh we going to do oh wait we going to do
this we're going to
do let N equal
this
all right how does that
feel oh so that's an interesting thing
we need to
we don't
want we don't want the
head we want the pat bro we want the pat
we want to insert Pat
here same
up
top toy toy to to top oh and we need to
do we need to change this whole thing
change this whole [__] up yeah
my B got a new
Lamborghini pattern s x l blank to F
correct F on F with empty that's good
here I
am
wait oh yeah no that's
good
[Music]
for
ultimate guitar Send Me on my
way
bro ultimate guitar Send Me On My
[Music]
Way
okay
[Music]
okay fine it's back to
work yeah but no but this is good I mean
at least we know that these cases are
all doing what they should um now the
problem is we should expect
so wait hold on we should
do we should also do this
case which probably fail us at the
current
moment right like that's just
wrong
stupid as
[__]
um
but this can modify the
map so I'm wondering if we're we should
do
that uh I would like
to reach out my hand on my say on I tell
you to
run say I'm about tell you to
run
for
I would like to reach out my hand oh
say tell you to
run
okay
where Pat is list
and and the head of that is
L so that means that we
need need to make sure
that
the and
match no
more than the head of the
[Music]
X
say about tell you to
run
for
about I'm about tell you to
run
uh
all right so we're
good we're good we're good we're good
bro we're
good
on
my on I tell you to
[Music]
run
for
[Music]
h
the
[Music]
[Applause]
okay so let's write the real logic out I
feel like I'm just procrastinating
writing the real hard part out because
I'm afraid it's not going to work which
is
sad so did I Define this
here will this
possibly
crash
yeah
I think it
will
H
right right right
right
I think that's
fine
whoa all right let's see what did I
write
here
all right let's just so we have P so why
don't we just do
this
um I think we need to do
like uh temp map equal map clone and
then I think we need
to do temp
map and then
otherwise we do map equals 10 map I
think I think that's what we need to do
because we need to do in a couple other
places
because give me that
nut give me that that mut that
mutable
H can I just do
that okay so what did I say I said for I
pii in P rest
dot
then right this would be the naive
thing but we can't do
this
have to do
what did I say I said for Jay
in no but that's not right that's not
what I
said oh it is
I think I even did this but I don't
think I mean
to
for
[Music]
BR we be out here
bro
for
e
d
okay so what is
happening we need to remove that test
case
but wait
map
I don't really understand
[Music]
that
wait
[Music]
um
yeah that's that's a good
wording
for
because you passed because I passed it
away
[Music]
H so even if I did this I would still
have an issue is what it's
saying because you give it
away
[Music]
yes so you don't even have access to
it
is that is this a
problem I don't think it's a problem
because we're returning false so no but
we're if we're
inside
recursion
then
I feel like it does matter but maybe
we'll run into that when we run into
that all let's comment it out for
now
um need to conditionally
accept the changes to
the the
Bindings
that if we are what did it
say no that's stupid that's nonsense
um we are in
recursion and we return false
then think we need to undo this up
above what's a concrete case that shows
that we're
saying saying the head is a list so
that's all we know let me just do that
so the head of the uh patternless so we
okay so here's
p
o wait
oat okay all right all right that
[__] so Pat is going to
be
something that has a
list no but we're at the
head we're at the head so that means
that if the head matching fails the
whole thing fails so this would be a top
level
fail
at least that's what it seems
[Music]
like okay whatever um
no but okay but maybe
this
now because there you
actually uh need to
revert bad
guess or at least overr
right I don't know how to do that all
right but let's continue on here this is
all
nonsense
um is that even
correct
let's figure it
out
uh
no it's not
correct it's
not wait
actually J represents the number
of uh
[Music]
expert
next
[Music]
e
the
[Music]
okay this is going
crazy the head doesn't match return
Falls that's
fine
and we're at the right level so that's
okay now
here we've already
made made sure that the
head now this isn't going to be right
this is this needs to be
[Music]
pattern
um then we need to
say
uh I feel like that's what I need to
do what is this give
me
let oh yeah wait hold
on that's
[Music]
fine
borrowing
here
okay
aslist
unwrap uh
zero uh Sim Sim lank
sequence do something and I think all
this old craple goes in
there you know like chill out else if P
type is equal equal to
blank let me do something else
and I think in that case we already
wrote that
down
as I think we already wrote that down
and that we don't
even
so anyways I guess
to yeah to
explain what my idea for pattern
matching was today was that for all the
possible lengths you try to do
effectively get match of X of rebuild
all of pet map where we say map.
insert and here we need to do this
cloning thing which is I don't
know
actually I wonder if that's how that
works like if I pass a mutable hash
map yeah I'm just it's just going to
stop mutating the original
one H that's not great I don't like that
at all because that just doesn't work so
you
can't
but then you need to know when I'm
allowed to
overwrite
which I don't
know maybe you should return bu changes
so I can revert
changes
I don't know maybe I'm like psychotic
and I just can't get this
right
okay
but
uh
okay so now you have this new pattern
and you
say
[Music]
okay so the problem at this
point is then we're now at the stage
where what we're saying is
that map should
insert do I have a parse
function
um uh
SE
on blah blah
blah so requires look
ahead damn this pattern match is driving
me [__] crazy
bro for real it actually is
for
I think that that
means
that's fine the
only pattern types that are going to
return sequence
objects
for
oh
jeez yeah
okay
actually
um let's see equal this and then we
inserti
pi and uh the values we
seek CL it
CL okay and then we re build then we get
match and then if not M yeah I think we
can just do map.
remove yeah I don't know what the hell I
was talking
about what's wrong with
that I think that's
fine what was I
saying this is requir this is required
regardless but why can't we
just
all right so then
we try
again
and then I think if we get to
the I think I think I'm supposed to
return this was return false there
oh
wait uh wait even that
no fix
me
wait then we need to do
one we we also need to look
up yeah we need
to but I
think I think uh
no because if we do this rebuild all
thing
why do we need rebuild all I have a note
in here somewhere that says we need
this
[Music]
for
m do
do
for
this should be a super simple
function
m
for
I think that's
right super super um we don't we don't
make any fixed Point assumption but
whatever
[Music]
I want to play that song man
oh yo what were you asking
bro what's
up yeah I I can't build it yet but yes I
know about that
command can build my project
here anyways what's up bro what's going
on
on why doesn't this work cuz I need a
pointer then have
need I'm done
just about memory usage
here okay so in that in this case we're
looking at a non head yeah so like just
to refresh my
memory in this case we looking at a
non what should I call this a
list
BL uh
hat
meaning this blank is
going to match a
single possibly there's a
single expert in the arguments to
X
oh
yeah yeah bro I'm getting [__] pissed
I got to keep my cool but I like rest I
like rest this has nothing to do with
rust this is more just like this pattern
matching
is kind of a beast it's kind of
tough um so here
again we need to look up the pattern
type or we need to look up if it exists
so maybe we should do that up
above we could look up if head is
pattern we could copy that code
for but we don't know if we want to
insert it yet
right I think that's
okay but we no but hold
on no I don't think we want to insert
it because what is we don't want yeah we
don't want to do this this is wrong we
do want
to
will it happen when we were curs I think
it might happen when we were curs so let
me delete
this do you stream
R let's
see I guess
not
okay do you
code I got on my phone I'm reading chat
but uh I'm G switch back to
this what do you Cod bro
link your
GitHub what's your home
L
nice from Brazil that's cool
oh dude you use
Bevy that's sick I wanted to make chest
and Bevy but it it looked like too much
work I saw someone else had that but it
was like from the old
version
MMO RPG server That's crazy dude you do
game work that's
cool oh what is
that this is your
language oh oh Lu RS it's Lua
bindings
oh oh [__] that's kind of cool
so you can like do Roblox and stuff I I
used to remember that fools would
uh would mess around with Roblox Lua do
they still do it Roblox Lua I think it
is
right
yeah Roblox all
Lua that's cool dude I I think like
programming in general is getting to the
point where you like
there's some fundamental differences
between programming but like we're
getting so poly glot poly glottal like
you just create tables of types type
mappings and things like that and it
becomes easy to program in any language
to that's cool how did you make these
bindings
this is
neat what
why it's
cool L RS
oh you're good bro don't worry about
it uh it's cool it's
cool I like
the I don't even know if you know what
that's from
um
that's super
cool forgotten server so are there any
games that are implemented in this
thing
I never thought about this this so
cool
h
I never heard of
this
97 old ass game bro the tile based
game
That's crazy
dude oh is that what that means open
tibia that's wild man people it's so
cool cuz people fall in love with games
and they
like yeah dude 25 years that's
wild and people just don't like
um
they just keep want to play that game so
cool
huh
oh
find
it
does it depend on chess I actually
forgot it doesn't even depend on chess
it'd be nice if they
just didn't recode
it oh there's a new one
why does it move so
slow that's why I want to return a v but
why they couldn't I return
back yeah I mean I just didn't have the
willpower to do that it
wasn't
wasn't didn't seem like my type of
thing right now I'm very focused on
trying to
build an open-source version of
Mathematica
yeah that makes
sense hey I'm curious if you're in
Brazil can you go to this website I made
um I want to know if there's any
bathrooms near you
oh by the way I think my discord's
linked below it' be cool if you join or
add me or whatever um you seem cool I
saw you have it linked in your GitHub I
don't want to go on Discord now just
because of Doc thing
but you
know I just want to see if there's any
bathrooms near
you oh wait I just doed my my location
[__]
how long have you been working on
debie
does this
run we need to
disable
three
really this return
false
if it's not
then do we do
this
I feel like we have to do that wait but
we have to know how many we've
taken work on the Minecraft server I a
problem with
that yeah let's
see
who that's
cool oh this is updated pretty pretty
recently
cool where is this
huh wonder if they have
3D oh nice kind of
does
dude working on the Google Earth team
would be
cool Oh I thought I turn this thing
off all right I'm going to get back to
work so what's
wrong we can't can't just
take
I because we need to
know wait can we take
I I think we can take
that
for
I think you need to return true
here okay now the Moment of Truth which
there's just no way that this code is
right okay wait let's try
this
F blank we're going to try F blank and
see if that works because that
definitely should
match
okay what's okay I feel like it's being
too
permissive we need to
handle hold
on
it's because we need to
insert we need to do our
lookup
can't return here but we do want to get
a set and we don't want to return here
we want to
say
uh actually do we need to even do
this
I feel like we don't have to do
anything uh and it's not Pat it's going
to be PI
right otherwise
insert
pi
and
seek right and we need
[Music]
to
do
um still pass cuz we never see
that and here I think we need the same
thing and we need
this
uh damn I'm
sleepy it's got me
bugging it's harder to focus during the
day
or doing the it's easier to focus doing
the
day okay so let me just slowly think
about what is this
case this is the case where we
have so like we
had m m qf
a
uh we
are at at this point we've already check
that
f
yeah it just doesn't
understand okay so now we iterating I
equals zero
right
P Pi is equal to pattern x blank so if
if it's a
pattern so so this is only if it's a
pattern
so and
pattern oh does it really do that
I don't like that at
all okay so now we're going
along
yeah good night
bro cool dude hope you stream it' be
cool to see you start
streaming
oops
where we don't need a sequence
because it should
be it should
be let
EI
I think it's going to be
EI EI
E I think I don't even need to do this I
think I just need to go get match
because
oh is it because we need to do a
remove does remove guarantee
that if it was previous in the map so I
think
um
I think we just do
that right like if it if we didn't get a
match
then but it's actually possible
that this remove this adds way more than
that that could add way more than
that all right for
now I'm going to comment this
out okay there's just no way
that that this
works
oh pars on uh
the sequence
thing shoot I really don't want to do
that sequence
handling
um so what does that
mean we've already rebuilt everything so
that means that
is that
allowed yeah because it takes the blanks
and makes them literal so that should be
okay so then what is it going to be is
it
I to I + J or is it zero
I think it should be I to I +
J so I think it needs to
be I
think this
means the sequence should be I dot dot
i+ j I don't know if the equals
is all right so let's just do f a
b f double blank x double
[Music]
blank I think I'm going stop streaming
soon
I really want to get this
but okay let's think about the most
basic
case so we have the F we're already done
with the head
now we going to
here then we go into
here now we start off with J is equal to
one so then we
take so then we need to
take uh
let
um that's not right it's going to be
um Can
format be
used with
loop I have a back ER
rest and I want to form
all
right
sequence
um
I think that's
right I'm playing so fast and loose with
it right now I don't even know what's
going on it's like a days let's see
though um
do I have list.
Push I think I got that with the D stuff
so let me add
D cuz that just made life really
easy
[Music]
so now I think I can push to
it so now I could say
so let's just try
this uh let mute
xals
parse
cence then I think I can
do x.
push
um Sim
hi
and then I can say
print okay so that's actually how I want
to do
it
uh let mute seek equal parse this
for parse air
bro where
at where
at that's so weird why does it just do
that g Li be
Li go my C die
this video never turned out how I
wanted oh wow that's crazy that my video
actually does show
up
what Peach
R oh wait I'm going to dumb
ass one two three yeah
oh
really yeah that's what I
figured that is total
bogus cuz we're not checking
equality and here we never entert into
the map at
all we need to check that the bindings
are
correct
hold
on
I like that except the eye
thing
see what is going on
there oh it's because we do this pattern
[Music]
thing oh and it is a
pattern okay well why don't we just copy
and paste
it
oh okay that's pretty nice so okay um
that's pretty
nice
yes this should be empty this should be
empty X goes to
F I'm super shy super
shy
oh
my
all right so all these cases are
right this is just
wrong
but
why I only want to run
or I only want to run 10 right
now this is going to be one now I want
to print
I'm super shy super
[Music]
shy and then I am trying to match
it
oh you are such an
idiot I literally only use co-pilot for
it to print things because it's such a
pain in the ass to print
things f sequence
a so we need to splice in we need to
splice
in but also needs to return
Falls
all right I'm pretty
fried all right that was
fun I
um I'll probably have to rewrite this
code like three or four more times
before I really
understand everything that needs to go
on
but that's how it goes when you code
some of the coolest [__] ever I mean
it's going to be really cool we when we
have blank sequence and uh blank seek
pattern or blank null
sequence